1)What are the three stages to build the hypotheses or model in machine learning?
   
Answer:-  The 3 stages of building hypothesis in machine learning are as follows:-
          i) Model building,
          ii) Model testing,
          iii) Applying the model.

 
 

2)What is the standard approach to supervised learning?
    
Answer:-  The standard approach to supervised learning is to split the set of example into the training set and the test.

  
  
  
3)What is Training set and Test set?
    
Answer:-  In various areas of information science like machine learning, a set of data is used to discover the potentially      predictive relationship known as ‘Training Set’. Training set is an examples given to the learner, while Test set is used to test the accuracy of the hypotheses generated by the learner, and it is the set of example held back from the learner. Training set are distinct from Test set. 

   
   
   
4)What is the general principle of an ensemble method and what is bagging and boosting in ensemble method?

Answer:-  The general principle of an ensemble method is to combine the predictions of several models built with a given   learning algorithm in order to improve robustness over a single model.
 
   Bagging :- 
             Bagging is a method in ensemble for improving unstable estimation or classification schemes. Bagging both can reduce errors by reducing the variance term.

   Boosting :- 
              Boosting method are used sequentially to reduce the bias of the combined model. Boosting can reduce errors by    reducing the variance term.

     
     
     
5)How can you avoid overfitting ?
      
Answer.:- Following are the commonly used methodologies  to avoid overfitting:-
     
     1) Cross-Validation :
                          Cross Validation in its simplest form is a one round validation, where we leave one sample as in-time validation and rest for   training the model. But for keeping lower variance a higher fold cross validation is preferred.
   
     2)Early Stopping : 
                       Early stopping rules provide guidance as to how many iterations can be run before the learner begins to over-fit.
      
     3) Pruning :
                 Pruning is used extensively while building CART models. It simply removes the nodes which add little predictive power for the  problem in hand.
    
     4) Regularization : 
                         This is the technique we are going to discuss in more details. Simply put, it introduces a cost term for bringing in more features with the objective function. Hence, it tries to push the coefficients for many variables to zero and hence reduce cost term.

